* ARM System MMU Architecture Implementation

ARM SoCs may contain an implementation of the ARM System Memory
Management Unit Architecture, which can be used to provide 1 or 2 stages
of address translation to bus masters external to the CPU.

The SMMU may also raise interrupts in response to various fault
conditions.

** System MMU required properties:

- compatible    : Should be one of:

                        "arm,smmu-v1"
                        "arm,smmu-v2"
                        "arm,mmu-400"
                        "arm,mmu-401"
                        "arm,mmu-500"
                        "cavium,smmu-v2"
                        "qcom,qsmmu-v500"
                        "qcom,adreno-smmu"
                        "qcom,smmu-v2"
			"qcom,virt-smmu"

                  depending on the particular implementation and/or the
                  version of the architecture implemented.

                  Qcom SoCs must contain, as below, SoC-specific compatibles
                  along with "qcom,smmu-v2":
                  "qcom,msm8996-smmu-v2", "qcom,smmu-v2",
                  "qcom,sdm845-smmu-v2", "qcom,smmu-v2".

                  Qcom SoCs implementing "arm,mmu-500" must also include,
                  as below, SoC-specific compatibles:
                  "qcom,sdm845-smmu-500", "arm,mmu-500"

		  "qcom,virt-smmu" is a subtype of "qcom,qsmmu-v500" which
		  only supports access to the set of registers required by
		  the arm specificiation. None of the additional registers
		  normally present in qcom,qsmmu-v500 are supported
		  currently.

- reg           : Base address and size of the SMMU.

- #global-interrupts : The number of global interrupts exposed by the
                       device.

- interrupts    : Interrupt list, with the first #global-irqs entries
                  corresponding to the global interrupts and any
                  following entries corresponding to context interrupts,
                  specified in order of their indexing by the SMMU.

                  For SMMUv2 implementations, there must be exactly one
                  interrupt per context bank. In the case of a single,
                  combined interrupt, it must be listed multiple times.

- #iommu-cells  : See Documentation/devicetree/bindings/iommu/iommu.txt
                  for details. With a value of 1, each IOMMU specifier
                  represents a distinct stream ID emitted by that device
                  into the relevant SMMU.

                  SMMUs with stream matching support and complex masters
                  may use a value of 2, where the second cell of the
                  IOMMU specifier represents an SMR mask to combine with
                  the ID in the first cell.  Care must be taken to ensure
                  the set of matched IDs does not result in conflicts.

** System MMU optional properties:

- dma-coherent  : Present if page table walks made by the SMMU are
                  cache coherent with the CPU.

                  NOTE: this only applies to the SMMU itself, not
                  masters connected upstream of the SMMU.

- calxeda,smmu-secure-config-access : Enable proper handling of buggy
                  implementations that always use secure access to
                  SMMU configuration registers. In this case non-secure
                  aliases of secure registers have to be used during
                  SMMU configuration.

- stream-match-mask : For SMMUs supporting stream matching and using
                  #iommu-cells = <1>, specifies a mask of bits to ignore
		  when matching stream IDs (e.g. this may be programmed
		  into the SMRn.MASK field of every stream match register
		  used). For cases where it is desirable to ignore some
                  portion of every Stream ID (e.g. for certain MMU-500
                  configurations given globally unique input IDs). This
                  property is not valid for SMMUs using stream indexing,
                  or using stream matching with #iommu-cells = <2>, and
                  may be ignored if present in such cases.

- clock-names:    List of the names of clocks input to the device. The
                  required list depends on particular implementation and
                  is as follows:
                  - for "qcom,smmu-v2":
                    - "bus": clock required for downstream bus access and
                             for the smmu ptw,
                    - "iface": clock required to access smmu's registers
                               through the TCU's programming interface.
                  - unspecified for other implementations.

- clocks:         Specifiers for all clocks listed in the clock-names property,
                  as per generic clock bindings.

- power-domains:  Specifiers for power domains required to be powered on for
                  the SMMU to operate, as per generic power domain bindings.

- attach-impl-defs : global registers to program at device attach
                  time. This should be a list of 2-tuples of the format:
                  <offset reg_value>.
